Welcome back to the viz. section of that intro to data science course.
And previously we successfully installed Tablo public.
So we're almost ready to visualize things.
There's just one component missing and that's the data that we need to get a data set that we're going
to be working with in order to start visualizing.
And that's exactly what we're going to do.
In today's tutorial.
So in order to get the data set we're going to go ahead to Super data science dot com slash intro hyphen
to hyphen data science.
So this is the page on super science where all of the materials for this call for this course are hosted
so you can download all the data sets here and or any additional materials we're talking about.
And the data set for today is in part two.
There are signs of Tablo and we're going to download this one here Bag Marketing days.
So there we go.
It's downloaded and now I'm going to go to the downloads folder and unzip the file.
There it is.
Bank marketing data set.
So right away what we're going to do is we're going to create a new folder on our desktop for this course
that's going to be called intro to data science.
And then inside this folder we're going to create a folder for our project is always a good idea to
keep your projects in separate folders so that you know where everything is.
Bank marketing.
So that's the name of our project and here we're going to copy the files into our wonderful So now we
can just get rid of these too.
And yeah.
So there's our data so we can open it up to have a look what it's what and get a feel for it what it's
all about.
All right.
There it is.
There's our bank marketing data set as you can see it's quite large and quite confusing at this stage
because it's almost a very it's a semi-colon separated values file.
And if you scroll down to the very bottom you'll actually see there's a lot of roses for 1188 records
not including the header.
And yes it's quite a large dataset.
And what we're going to do is actually we're going to close this Excel and we're going to import the
dataset into Tablo.
You can use the menu here.
You need to select a text file because a comma SUPERVALU files consider a text file.
But what we're going to do is just going to take a shortcut and we're going to drag the data set in
to tabel like that.
As simple as the table is a very drag and drop tool as you'll see further down and even when you're
connecting to data you can do that and you can see is identified dataset as a text file.
All right.
So that's our dataset imported here.
It will show the top thousand rows so you can just like scroll through them and get a feel for the dataset.
And now right away they're much better organized.
And so we're almost done.
I'm just going to show you where you can find the information about these columns what exactly they
mean and what this whole dataset is about.
There's a filing here.
There's there's that information which will tell you a bit about the data it comes from the source.
You can also get it on the UCI machine learning repository and Atlanta will tell you a bit more about
that repository in his tutorials on Python.
But here's a data information.
The data is related with direct marketing campaigns of a Portuguese banking institution.
The marketing campaigns were based on phone calls often more than one contact to the same.
Was required in order to assess.
I'm assuming they should be assessed that access if the product banked on deposit would be yes or no
would not be subscribed.
So basically the question is the buyer the bank is trying to sell a new product or another product will
grow to the customer's bank term deposit.
And so they want to predict is that person going to subscribe or not subscribe to that.
And so it's a real world there.
So it's it's a real world problem it's real world customers of coastal desensitized or it's very similar
to what was in the real world.
And here you we've got the information about the cold so the columns as you see here you can find information
about them here.
So these columns they describe every single person I was contacted.
So that's their age 56.
That's their job.
Housemaid or admin or blue collar technician.
That's a marital status.
Married single is divorced as if you are the ones education default.
So some of them are intuitive like these ones for instance like Grace for years highs high schools or
some are not.
So if they're not into that you can just go back and find out what they are and you'll see us doing
this throughout the coming to chorro so default for instance means has created in default.
Yes and No.
Does this person have credit in default.
So usually it's not.
Some of them are those are some of the my.
Yes housing loan you know life here does housing has a housing loan or loan.
Is has a personal loan so does that person have a housing loan.
Yes or no.
Does that person have a personal loan.
Yes or no contact is how was the person contacted.
So here you see these are bank decline data.
The first one we've gone through them.
Then we've got it related with the last contact of the campaign.
And then you've got some other attributes.
So there you go.
That's the set.
Oh and by the way at the end the last part is the Y variable.
This is the most important one.
It's the yes no variable is the actual target.
So has the client subscribed to a term deposit.
It's actually what we know we already know whether or not they subscribe to a term deposit.
We're going to be trying to predict that we're going to be trying to see if there's any correlation
with this variable among you know between the previous variables of any of them are correlated with
this.
So in the future we can say people with more education or with less education are more likely to subscribe
to this law to this new product.
So that's how it works and you'll see all of this happening in detail in the coming year.
So don't worry if it's a bit confusing at this stage we'll get through it.
It's a typical data size problem but we're going to be approaching it from a non typical standpoint.
So it will be a different approach than what usually people expect or people would do if this data sets
that's going to be exciting.
So on that note I'll leave you to it.
I'll leave you with this file and the data set as it is here to explore and have a look at the different
attributes that we that are available to us and we'll start analyzing in the next tutorial.
Until then enjoy data sites.